README.md, before:

# Stock Advisor Deployment

This repository contains the necessary configuration files to deploy the complete Stock Advisor application, including frontend, backend, and database components.

## Overview

The Stock Advisor application is a full-stack solution that includes:

- **Frontend**: Interactive web interface for visualizing stock data and recommendations
- **Backend**: REST API with intelligent stock analysis and recommendation algorithms
- **Database**: CockroachDB for high-performance data storage

## Quick Start

The easiest way to get everything running is to use the provided setup script:

```bash
# Make all scripts executable
chmod +x scripts/*.sh

# Run the setup script
./scripts/setup.sh

# Start the services
./scripts/start.sh
```

This will automatically:
1. Check for required dependencies
2. Clone the necessary repositories
3. Verify the database initialization script
4. Launch the entire application stack

## Manual Setup

If you prefer to set up manually:

1. Clone both source repositories:
```bash
# Create a directory for the repositories
mkdir -p repositories
cd repositories

# Clone the repositories
git clone https://github.com/julianloaiza/stock-advisor-frontend.git
git clone https://github.com/julianloaiza/stock-advisor-backend.git
cd ..
```

2. Ensure the SQL directory exists:
```bash
mkdir -p sql
# The init-db.sql script is already included in the repository
```

3. Start the application:
```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

## Accessing the Application

Once running, the application components are available at:

- **Frontend**: http://localhost:5173 (or the port configured in `.env`)
- **API Documentation**: http://localhost:8080/swagger/index.html (or using the configured backend port)
- **Database Admin**: http://localhost:9090 (or the port configured in `.env`)

## Repository Structure

```
stock-advisor-deployment/
├── docker-compose.yml     # Main configuration for all services
├── .env                   # Environment configuration
├── .env.example           # Example environment configuration
├── README.md              # English documentation (this file)
├── README.es.md           # Spanish documentation
├── scripts/               # Utility scripts
│   ├── setup.sh           # Initial setup script
│   ├── start.sh           # Start services
│   ├── stop.sh            # Stop services
│   ├── reset.sh           # Reset services
│   └── remove.sh          # Remove everything
├── sql/                   # Database scripts
│   └── init-db.sql        # Database initialization
└── repositories/          # Source code repositories
    ├── stock-advisor-frontend/
    └── stock-advisor-backend/
```

## Configuration

The application is fully configurable through the `.env` file. Key configuration options include:

- **Database settings**: User, database name
- **Service ports**: For all components (frontend, backend, database)
- **API configuration**: URL, authentication token
- **Frontend settings**: API URL, default language

You can edit the `.env` file to customize the deployment according to your needs.

## Component Repositories

The application is split across two main repositories:

- **Frontend**: [julianloaiza/stock-advisor-frontend](https://github.com/julianloaiza/stock-advisor-frontend)
- **Backend**: [julianloaiza/stock-advisor-backend](https://github.com/julianloaiza/stock-advisor-backend)

## Utility Scripts

The repository includes several utility scripts to help manage the application:

- **setup.sh**: Initial setup of the environment
- **start.sh**: Start all services
- **stop.sh**: Stop all services
- **reset.sh**: Reset services (with or without data)
- **remove.sh**: Remove all containers, volumes, and networks

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter any issues:

1. **Check logs**: `docker-compose logs -f [service_name]` (e.g., `backend`, `frontend`, or `cockroach`)
2. **Restart services**: Run `./scripts/reset.sh`
3. **Rebuild containers**: `docker-compose up -d --build`
4. **Check environment variables**: Ensure all required variables are set in the `.env` file

## System Requirements

- Docker Engine 20.10+
- Docker Compose 2.0+
- 4GB RAM (minimum)
- 10GB free disk space

Commit message:

Update README and scripts: enhance setup process with service start prompt, add shutdown script, and improve service management descriptions

README.md, after:

# Stock Advisor Deployment

This repository contains the necessary configuration files to deploy the complete Stock Advisor application, including frontend, backend, and database components.

## Overview

The Stock Advisor application is a full-stack solution that includes:

- **Frontend**: Interactive web interface for visualizing stock data and recommendations
- **Backend**: REST API with intelligent stock analysis and recommendation algorithms
- **Database**: CockroachDB for high-performance data storage

## Quick Start

The easiest way to get everything running is to use the provided setup script:

```bash
# Make all scripts executable
chmod +x scripts/*.sh

# Run the setup script
./scripts/setup.sh
```

This will automatically:
1. Check for required dependencies
2. Clone the necessary repositories
3. Verify the database initialization script
4. Launch the entire application stack

At the end of the setup process, you'll be asked if you want to start the services immediately. If you choose 'yes', the script will automatically run `start.sh` for you.

## Manual Setup

If you prefer to set up manually:

1. Clone both source repositories:
```bash
# Create a directory for the repositories
mkdir -p repositories
cd repositories

# Clone the repositories
git clone https://github.com/julianloaiza/stock-advisor-frontend.git
git clone https://github.com/julianloaiza/stock-advisor-backend.git
cd ..
```

2. Ensure the SQL directory exists:
```bash
mkdir -p sql
# The init-db.sql script is already included in the repository
```

3. Start the application:
```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

## Accessing the Application

Once running, the application components are available at:

- **Frontend**: http://localhost:5173 (or the port configured in `.env`)
- **API Documentation**: http://localhost:8080/swagger/index.html (or using the configured backend port)
- **Database Admin**: http://localhost:9090 (or the port configured in `.env`)

## Repository Structure

```
stock-advisor-deployment/
├── docker-compose.yml     # Main configuration for all services
├── .env                   # Environment configuration
├── .env.example           # Example environment configuration
├── README.md              # English documentation (this file)
├── README.es.md           # Spanish documentation
├── scripts/               # Utility scripts
│   ├── setup.sh           # Initial setup script
│   ├── start.sh           # Start services
│   ├── stop.sh            # Stop services
│   ├── reset.sh           # Reset services
│   └── remove.sh          # Remove everything
├── sql/                   # Database scripts
│   └── init-db.sql        # Database initialization
└── repositories/          # Source code repositories
    ├── stock-advisor-frontend/
    └── stock-advisor-backend/
```

## Configuration

The application is fully configurable through the `.env` file. Key configuration options include:

- **Database settings**: User, database name
- **Service ports**: For all components (frontend, backend, database)
- **API configuration**: URL, authentication token
- **Frontend settings**: API URL, default language

You can edit the `.env` file to customize the deployment according to your needs.

## Component Repositories

The application is split across two main repositories:

- **Frontend**: [julianloaiza/stock-advisor-frontend](https://github.com/julianloaiza/stock-advisor-frontend)
- **Backend**: [julianloaiza/stock-advisor-backend](https://github.com/julianloaiza/stock-advisor-backend)

## Utility Scripts

The repository includes several utility scripts to help manage the application:

- **setup.sh**: Initial setup of the environment
- **start.sh**: Start all services (can also restart services after shutdown or stop)
- **stop.sh**: Stop all services temporarily (keeps containers)
- **shutdown.sh**: Shut down all services (removes containers but preserves data volumes)
- **reset.sh**: Reset services (with or without data)
- **remove.sh**: Remove all containers, volumes, and networks (complete cleanup)

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter any issues:

1. **Check logs**: `docker-compose logs -f [service_name]` (e.g., `backend`, `frontend`, or `cockroach`)
2. **Restart services**: Run `./scripts/reset.sh`
3. **Rebuild containers**: `docker-compose up -d --build`
4. **Check environment variables**: Ensure all required variables are set in the `.env` file

## System Requirements

- Docker Engine 20.10+
- Docker Compose 2.0+
- 4GB RAM (minimum)
- 10GB free disk space
